The first line of prevention of surgical site infection relies on the timely administration of antibiotic prophylaxis. First- and second-generation cephalosporins are the most recommended antibiotics in elective surgery. The incidence of cefazolin allergy has increased worldwide over the years. The sensitization mechanism of cefazolin is currently unknown, and data supporting cross-reactivity between penicillins and cephalosporins are lacking. Sensitization could occur through previous exposure either to cefazolin or to structurally related chemical agents. The objective of this study was to evaluate sensitization agents towards cefazolin.

The OpenBabel chemoinformatics toolbox was used to search for similarities between cefazolin and other molecules in an extensive drug database. Using the pholcodine-rocuronium similarity score as a threshold, we selected drugs with the most similar structure to that of cefazolin. Exposure to those drugs and cefazolin was assessed in a cohort of patients with skin test-proven cefazolin allergy at a specialized allergy centre via a self-administered anonymous questionnaire.

Using the pholcodine-rocuronium similarity score as a threshold (score≥0.7), 42 molecules were found to be similar to cefazolin (all cephalosporins). Only 8 were marketed in France. None of the 14 cefazolin-allergic patients who answered the questionnaire (65% female, median age 56 years) reported exposure to any identified antibiotics. In contrast, 11 (78%) had at least one previous surgery requiring cefazolin before the index case.

Direct previous cefazolin exposure was identified in 78% of cefazolin-allergic patients. Cefazolin started to take a central place in antibiotic prophylaxis after 2010, when cefamandole usage decreased drastically. Changes in antibiotic prophylaxis over the past 14 years in France could have been the turning point for the increased incidence of cefazolin allergy.

To compare the occurrence of cefazolin perioperative anaphylaxis (POA) in patients with and without a penicillin allergy label (PAL) to determine whether the prevalence of cefazolin POA differs based on the presence of a PAL.

Cross-sectional study.

A large U.S. healthcare system in the Baltimore-D.C. region, July 2017 to July 2020.

112,817 surgical encounters across inpatient and outpatient settings in various specialties, involving 90,089 patients. Of these, 4876 (4.3%) encounters had a PAL.

Perioperative cefazolin administration within 4 h before surgery to 4 h after the procedure began.

The primary outcome was cefazolin POA in patients with and without PALs. Potential POA cases were identified based on tryptase orders or diphenhydramine administrations within the initial cefazolin administration to 6 h postoperatively. Verification included two validation steps. The first checked for hypersensitivity reaction (HSR) documentation, and the second, led by Allergy specialists, identified POA and the probable culprit. The secondary outcome looked at cefazolin use trends in patients with a PAL, stratified by setting and specialty.

Of 112,817 encounters, 1421 (1.3%) had possible cefazolin HSRs. Of these, 22 (1.5%) had POA, resulting in a 0.02% prevalence. Of these, 13 (59.1%) were linked to cefazolin and 9 (40.9%) attributed to other drugs. Only one cefazolin POA case had a PAL, indicating no significant difference in cefazolin POA prevalence between patients with and without PALs (p = 0.437). Perioperative cefazolin use in patients with PALs steadily increased from 2.6% to 6.0% between 2017 and 2020, specifically in academic settings.

The prevalence of cefazolin POA does not exhibit significant differences between patients with and without PALs, and notably, the incidence remains remarkably low. Based on these findings, it is advisable to view cefazolin as an acceptable choice for prophylaxis in patients carrying a PAL.

Perioperative anaphylaxis (PA) is a severe condition that can be fatal, but data on PA mortality are scarce. The aim of this article is to review the epidemiology, elicitors and risk factors for PA mortality and identify knowledge gaps and areas for improvement regarding the management of severe PA. PA affects about 100 cases per million procedures. Mortality is rare, estimated at 3 to 5 cases per million procedures, but the PA mortality rate is higher than for other anaphylaxis aetiologies, at 1.4% to 4.8%. However, the data are incomplete. Published data mention neuromuscular blocking agents and antibiotics, mainly penicillin and cefazolin, as the main causes of fatal PA. Reported risk factors for fatal PA vary in different countries. Most frequently occurring comorbidities are obesity, male gender, cardiovascular diseases and ongoing treatment with beta-blockers. However, there are no clues about how these factors interact and the impact of individual risk factors. The pathophysiology of fatal PA is still not completely known. Genetic factors such as deficiency in PAF-acetyl hydrolase and hereditary alpha-tryptasemia, have been reported as modulators of severe anaphylaxis and possible targets for specific treatments. Our review underlines unmet needs in the field of fatal PA. Although we confirmed the need for timely administration of an adequate dose of adrenaline and the proper infusion of fluids, there is no evidence-based data on the proper dose of intravenous titrated adrenaline and which clinical manifestations would flag the need for fluid therapy. There are no large clinical studies supporting the administration of alternative vasopressors, such as glucagon and methylene blue. Further research on pathophysiological mechanisms of PA and its severity may address these issues and help clinicians to define new therapeutic approaches.

Periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) is a common source of failure following elbow arthroplasty. Perioperative prophylactic antibiotics are considered standard of care. However, there are no data regarding the comparative efficacy of various antibiotics in the prevention of PJI for elbow arthroplasty. Previous studies in shoulder, hip, and knee arthroplasty have demonstrated higher rates of PJI with administration of non-cefazolin antibiotics. The elbow has higher rates of PJI than other joints. Therefore, this study evaluated whether perioperative antibiotic choice affects rates of PJI in elbow arthroplasty.

A single institution prospectively collected Total Joint Registry database was queried to identify patients who underwent primary elbow arthroplasty between 2003 and 2021. Elbows with known infection prior to arthroplasty (25) and procedures with incomplete perioperative antibiotic data (7) were excluded, for a final sample size of 603 total elbow arthroplasties and 19 distal humerus hemiarthroplasties. Cefazolin was administered in 561 elbows (90%) and non-cefazolin antibiotics including vancomycin (32 elbows, 5%), clindamycin (27 elbows, 4%) and piperacillin/tazobactam (2 elbows, 0.3%) were administered in the remaining 61 elbows (10%). Univariate and multivariate analyses were conducted to determine the association between the antibiotic administered and the development of PJI. Infection-free survivorship was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier (KM) method.

Deep infection occurred in 47 elbows (7.5%) and 16 elbows (2.5%) were diagnosed with superficial infections. Univariate analysis demonstrated that patients receiving non-cefazolin alternatives were at significantly higher risk for any infection (Hazard Ratio (HR) 2.6, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.4-5.0]; p < 0.01) and deep infection (HR 2.7 [95% CI 1.3 - 5.5]; p < 0.01) compared with cefazolin administration. Multivariable analysis, controlling for several independent predictors of PJI (tobacco use, male sex, surgical indication other than osteoarthritis, and American Society of Anesthesiologists score), showed that non-cefazolin administration had a higher risk for any infection (HR 2.8 [CI 1.4 - 5.3]; p < 0.01) and deep infection (HR 2.9 [95% CI 1.3 - 6.3]; p < 0.01). Survivorship free of infection was significantly higher at all time points for the cefazolin cohort (Figure 1).

In primary elbow arthroplasty, cefazolin administration was associated with significantly lower rates of PJI compared to non-cefazolin antibiotics, even in patients with a greater number of prior surgeries which is known to increase the risk of PJI. For patients with penicillin or cephalosporin allergies, preoperative allergy testing or a cefazolin test dose should be considered prior to administering non-cefazolin alternatives.

Cefazolin, also known as Ancef, is a first-generation cephalosporin antibiotic often used in surgery to treat or prevent bacterial infection of the surgical site. Ancef is safe for most of the population; however, many physicians use alternative, less effective medications in patients with penicillin allergy due to a fear of cross-reactivity between Ancef and one's penicillin allergy. In this article, we aim to examine if cefazolin is safe for patients with penicillin allergy.

To analyze the role played by the clinical pharmacist and its impact in antibiotic stewardship facing suspected allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics.

We performed 2 different independent bibliographic searches. A total of 35 articles were found, and the final number included in the study was 12. We analyzed the articles and collected variables of efficacy, safety, and applicability of evaluation tools applied to patients with suspected allergy to beta-lactams. Also, the variation in the consumption and prescription profile of alternative antibiotics was analyzed.

The selected studies analyzed questionnaires, allergy delabeling, intradermal tests, and oral challenge tests performed by pharmacists. Significant differences in the efficacy endpoint were found in 4 studies in favor of pharmaceutical intervention. In the study of Kwiatkowski et al., cefazolin use increased in surgical patients after pharmacist intervention (65% vs 28%; P < .01). In a quasi-experimental study, the mean defined daily dose of aztreonam and the mean days of therapy per 1000 patients/day decreased (21.23 vs 9.05, P <.01) and (8.79-4.24, P = .016), pre- and post-intervention, respectively, increasing antibiotic de-escalations (P = < .01). In another quasi-experimental study, the prescription of restricted use antibiotics decreased (42.5% vs 17.9%, P < .01)and the use of pre-surgical prophylactic antibiotics alternative to cefazolin (81.9% vs 55.9%, P < .01)in another study. Other study showed that the mean time per interview was 5.2 min per patient. No adverse events were reported in any study.

The pharmacist intervention in the evaluation of the patient with suspected allergy to beta-lactams is effective, safe, and feasible to implement on daily clinical practice. The standardization of protocols to clarify the history of allergies and development of evaluation tools represent simple screenings to perform delabeling or refer to the Immunoallergology service, improving penicilins use and reducing the need for second-line antibiotics. More studies are needed to standardize the desensitization tests made by pharmacists. However, despite these results, the involvement and leadership of the pharmacist in this area is limited and constitutes a future challenge for the profession.

The guidelines on calculated parenteral initial treatment of bacterial infections in adults from 2018 were the first German language S2k guidelines for these infections. This article summarizes the experiences with respect to their practicality in the clinical routine and the resulting supplementations and comments. In view of the many different terms for soft tissue infections, the guidelines had to first establish some definitions and diagnostic criteria. Among others, the guidelines introduced the provisional term limited phlegmons (phlegmons are usually termed cellulitis in Angloamerican literature) for the frequent initially superficial soft tissue infections with Staphylococcus aureus, which do not always extend to the fascia, in order to differentiate them from erysipelas caused by Streptoccocus, which in contrast to phlegmons always respond to penicillin. The general symptoms present in erysipela are a practical differential criterion. Somewhat more complex are the definitions and recommendations for the severe forms of phlegmon, which involve the fascia and are accompanied by necrosis, so that here the practicality of the guidelines needs to prove its worth over time. The guidelines also give recommendations how to proceed in case of alleged or confirmed hypersensitivity to beta-lactam antibiotics. Currently, relevant guidelines recommend, and it is correspondingly here elaborated, that in acute cases a beta-lactam antibiotic with side chains other than those in the suspected drug may present an alternative without prior testing. Therefore, cefazolin, that does not share any side chains with other beta-lactam antibiotics, could be administered under appropriate precautionary measures. The term cellulitis is avoided in the guidelines. Since it is used frequently, and also for non-infectious dermatoses, the various meanings are discussed and distinguished from each other.

Die Leitlinie „Kalkulierte parenterale Initialtherapie bakterieller Erkrankungen bei Erwachsenen“ von 2018 ist die erste deutschsprachige S2k-Leitlinie für diese Infektionen gewesen. In diesem Beitrag werden Erfahrungen zu ihrer Praktikabilität im klinischen Alltag und daraus rührende Ergänzungen und Kommentare zusammengefasst. Angesichts vieler verschiedener Begriffe zu Weichgewebeinfektionen musste die Leitlinie sich zunächst auf einige Definitionen und diagnostische Kriterien festlegen. Unter anderem hat sie für die häufigen, noch nicht die Faszie einschließenden Weichgewebeinfektionen mit Staphylococcus aureus den provisorischen Begriff „begrenzte Phlegmone“ eingeführt, um sie von den eher Streptokokken-bedingten Erysipelen zu unterscheiden, die im Gegensatz zu Phlegmonen immer auf Penizillin ansprechen. Die bei Erysipelen vorliegenden Allgemeinsymptome sind ein praktikables Unterscheidungskriterium. Etwas komplexer sind die Definitionen und Empfehlungen bei den Formen der schweren oder komplizierten Phlegmone, die bis zur Faszie reichen und mit Nekrosen einhergehen, sodass sich die Praktikabilität der Leitlinie hier noch bewähren muss. Die Leitlinie gibt auch jeweils Alternativen für den Fall einer vermeintlichen Allergie auf Betalaktamantibiotika. Inzwischen wird in einschlägigen Leitlinien empfohlen und entsprechend hier ausgeführt, dass im Akutfall auch ohne vorherige Testung ein Betalaktamantibiotikum mit anderen Seitenketten als bei dem in Verdacht stehenden Präparat in der Regel möglich ist und dass deswegen Cefazolin, das mit den anderen Betalaktamantibiotika keine Seitenkette teilt, unter entsprechenden Vorsichtsmaßnahmen eingesetzt werden kann. In den Leitlinien wird der Begriff „Zellulitis“ umgangen. Da er aber häufig und auch für nicht erregerbedingte Dermatosen gebraucht wird, werden seine unterschiedlichen Bedeutungen hier gegeneinander abgegrenzt.

This review will describe role of shorter antibiotic therapies, early switch from intravenous to oral therapy, and artificial intelligence in infectious diseases.

There is evidence that shorter courses of antibiotics are noninferior to standard durations of therapy. This has been demonstrated with Enterobacterales bacteremia that can be treated with 7 days of therapy, community acquired pneumonia with 3 days and ventilator associated pneumonia with just 7 days of antibiotic therapy. The conversion from intravenous to oral therapy in treating bacteremia, endocarditis and bone and joint infections is safe and effective and reduces line complications and costs. Also, for clean surgical procedures only one dose of antibiotic is needed, but it should be the most effective antibiotic which is cefazolin. This means avoiding clindamycin, removing penicillin allergies where possible for improved outcomes. Finally, the role of artificial intelligence to incorporate into using antibiotics wisely is rapidly emerging but is still in early stages.

In using antibiotics wisely, targeting such as durations of therapy and conversion from intravenous antibiotic therapy to oral are low hanging fruit. The future of artificial intelligence could automate a lot of this work and is exciting but needs to be proven.

http://links.lww.com/COID/A50.

Up to 20% of orthopedic surgeons still avoid the use of cephalosporins in patients with penicillin allergies despite its reported safety in the adult and general surgery pediatric population. The primary objective is to determine the incidence of adverse effects and allergic reactions when using cephalosporins in pediatric orthopedic patients labeled as penicillin-allergic as compared to those without previously reported penicillin allergy. A multicenter retrospective chart review was performed across three level 1 trauma centers from January 2013 to February 2020 to identify penicillin-allergic as well as non-penicillin-allergic pediatric patients treated for orthopedic injuries. Data were collected regarding patient demographics, antibiotic administered, timing of antibiotic administration, reported drug allergy, and described allergic reaction. Postoperative or intraoperative allergic reactions to antibiotics, surgical site infections, and complications were recorded. A total of 2289 surgeries performed by four fellowship-trained surgeons were evaluated. Eighty-five patients diagnosed with penicillin allergy were identified and underwent 95 surgeries and 95 patients without previously reported penicillin allergy underwent 95 surgeries. One patient, with a documented history of anaphylaxis to cefazolin, sustained an anaphylactic reaction intraoperatively to cefazolin. There were no other reported reactions, surgical site infections, or complications. There was no statistically significant difference in rate of allergic reaction in patients with previously reported penicillin allergy treated with cefazolin and those with no previous reported reaction (P > 0.05). Prophylaxis with cephalosporins is not associated with increased risk for allergic reaction. Cephalosporins can be safely administered to pediatric patients with penicillin allergy undergoing orthopedic intervention. Level of evidence: Level II, Multicenter Retrospective Prognostic Study.

To analyze the role played by the clinical pharmacist and its impact in antibiotic stewardship facing suspected allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics.

We performed two different independent bibliographic searches. A total of 35 articles were found, and the final number included in the study was 12. We analysed the articles and collected variables of efficacy, safety and applicability of evaluation tools applied to patients with suspected allergy to beta-lactams. Also, the variation in the consumption and prescription profile of alternative antibiotics was analyzed.

The selected studies analysed questionnaires, allergy delabeling, intradermal tests and oral challenge tests performed by pharmacists. Significant differences in the efficacy endpoint were found in 4 studies in favour of pharmaceutical intervention. In the study of Kwiatkowski et al, cefazolin use increased in surgical patients after pharmacist intervention (65 vs. 28%; p < 0.01). In a quasi-experimental study, the mean defined daily dose of aztreonam and the mean days of therapy per 1000 patients/day decreased (21.23 vs 9.05, p <0.01) and (8.79-4.24, p = 0.016), pre and post-intervention, respectively, increasing antibiotic de-escalations (p ≤ 0.01). In another quasi-experimental study, the prescription of restricted-use antibiotics decreased (42.5% vs. 17.9%, p < 0.01) and the use of pre-surgical prophylactic antibiotics alternative to cefazolin (81.9% vs 55.9%, p<0.01) in another study. Other study showed that the mean time per interview was 5.2 minutes per patient. No adverse events were reported in any study.

The pharmacist intervention in the evaluation of the patient with suspected allergy to beta-lactams is effective, safe and feasible to implement on daily clinical practice. The standardization of protocols to clarify the history of allergies and development of evaluation tools represent simple screenings to perform delabelling or refer to the Immunoallergology service, improving penicilins use and reducing the need for second line antibiotics. More studies are needed to standardize the desensitization tests made by pharmacists. However, despite these results, the involvement and leadership of the pharmacist in this area is limited and constitutes a future challenge for the profession.

Cefazolin is a first-line agent for prevention of surgical site infections (SSIs) after total joint arthroplasty. Patients labeled allergic to beta-lactam antibiotics frequently receive clindamycin or vancomycin perioperatively due to the perceived risk of a hypersensitivity reaction after exposure to cefazolin.

This single-system retrospective review included patients labeled allergic to penicillin or cephalosporin antibiotics who underwent a primary total hip and/or knee arthroplasty between January 2020 and July 2021. A detailed chart review was performed to compare the frequency of SSI within 90 days of surgery and interoperative hypersensitivity reactions (HSRs) between patients receiving cefazolin and patients receiving clindamycin and/or vancomycin.

A total of 1128 hip and/or knee arthroplasties from 1047 patients were included in the analysis (cefazolin n = 809, clindamycin/vancomycin n = 319). More patients in the clindamycin and/or vancomycin group had a history of cephalosporin allergy and allergic reactions with immediate symptoms. There were fewer SSIs in the cefazolin group compared with the clindamycin and/or vancomycin group (0.9% vs 3.8%; P < .001) including fewer prosthetic joint infections (0.1% vs 1.9%). The frequency of interoperative HSRs was not different between groups (cefazolin = 0.2% vs clindamycin/vancomycin = 1.3%; P = .06).

The use of cefazolin as a perioperative antibiotic for infection prophylaxis in total joint arthroplasty in patients labeled beta-lactam allergic is associated with decreased postoperative SSI without an increase in interoperative HSR.

To evaluate the choice of antibiotic used for intrapartum Group B Streptococcus (GBS) prophylaxis in pregnant individuals with reported penicillin allergies compared to those without reported penicillin allergies and investigate whether there are associated differences in neonatal outcomes.

This retrospective cohort study included mother-infant dyads of GBS positive pregnant individuals who labored and delivered newborns ≥ 35 weeks of gestation at a high-volume urban hospital (2005-2018). The type of antibiotic administered to the mothers for GBS prophylaxis (beta-lactam prophylaxis defined as penicillin-class drug or cefazolin; alternative prophylaxis defined as vancomycin or clindamycin) was compared between those with a penicillin allergy documented in their medical record versus those who did not. Neonatal outcomes included number of postnatal blood draws, antibiotic administration, neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) admission, bacteremia, and hospital length of stay and were compared between groups. Bivariable and multivariable analyses were performed.

Of 11,334 mother-infant pairs, 1170 (10.3%) mothers had a penicillin allergy documented in their medical record. Of them, 49 (4.2%) received a penicillin, 259 (22.1%) received cefazolin, 449 (38.4%) received clindamycin, and 413 (35.3%) received vancomycin. Patients with a reported penicillin allergy were significantly more likely to receive alternative GBS prophylaxis compared to those without penicillin allergy (73.7% vs. 0.2%, p < 0.01). Neonates of patients who received alternative GBS prophylaxis were significantly more likely to undergo a postnatal lab draw compared to neonates of patients who received beta-lactam antibiotics (20.8% vs. 17.3%, OR 1.25 (95% CI 1.08-1.46)). This significant association persisted after adjusting for potential confounders (aOR 1.23, 95% CI 1.06-1.43). There were no other significant differences seen in other newborn outcomes.

Pregnant individuals who report a penicillin allergy were more likely to receive alternative antibiotics for GBS prophylaxis compared to those without a penicillin allergy. This was associated with an increased frequency of postnatal blood draws among neonates of mothers with a reported penicillin allergy. Administration of alternative intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis with vancomycin or clindamycin is common in individuals with self-reported penicillin allergy, and maternal alternative antibiotic administration may impact neonatal care, particularly via increased lab draws.

Evaluate the impact of an allergy history-guided algorithm for optimizing perioperative cefazolin use in patients with reported beta-lactam allergy undergoing cesarean delivery.

The Allergy Clarification for Cefazolin Evidence-based Prescribing Tool (ACCEPT) was developed through consensus by allergists, anesthesiologists, and infectious diseases specialists, and implemented over a 2-month period (December 1, 2018, to January 31, 2019). A segmented regression on monthly cefazolin use was conducted during the baseline (January 1 to November 30, 2018) and intervention (February 1 to December 31, 2019) periods to evaluate the impact of ACCEPT on the monthly use of perioperative cefazolin in patients with reported beta-lactam allergy undergoing cesarean delivery. The frequency of perioperative allergic reactions and surgical site infections was collected during both periods.

Of the 3128 eligible women who underwent a cesarean delivery, 282 (9%) reported a beta-lactam allergy. The most common beta-lactam allergens were penicillin (64.3%), amoxicillin (16.0%), and cefaclor (6.0%). The most frequently reported allergic reactions were rash (38.1%), hives (21.4%), and unknown (11.6%). Use of cefazolin increased from 52% (baseline) to 87% during the intervention period. Segmented regression analysis confirmed a statistically significant increase following implementation (incidence rate ratio 1.62, 95% CI 1.19-2.21, P = 0.002). There was 1 perioperative allergic reaction in the baseline period and 2 during the intervention period. Cefazolin use remained high (92%) 2 years after algorithm implementation.

Implementation of a simple allergy history-guided algorithm in obstetrical patients with reported beta-lactam allergy resulted in a sustained increase in perioperative cefazolin prophylaxis.

A guideline identifying when inpatients with penicillin or cephalosporin antibiotic allergy labels (PCAAL) can receive β-lactam antibiotics increased β-lactam receipt at a large northeastern US health care system.

To report outcomes of implementing a similar guideline and electronic order set (OS) at an independent academic health care system.

Penicillin/cephalosporin receipt (percentage of inpatients receiving full doses) and alternative antibiotic use (days of therapy per 1000 patient-days [DOT/1000PD]) were compared over 3 periods before (February 1, 2017, to January 31, 2018) and after guideline implementation (February 1, 2018, to January 31, 2019), and after OS implementation (February 1, 2019, to January 31, 2020) among inpatients with PCAAL admitted on medical services with access to guideline/OS and education (Medical-PCAAL, n = 8721), surgical services with access to guideline/OS without education (Surgical-PCAAL, n = 5069), and obstetrics/gynecology services without interventions (Ob/Gyn-PCAAL, n = 798) and inpatients without PCAAL admitted on the same services (Medical-No-PCAAL, n = 50,840; Surgical-No-PCAAL, n = 29,845; Ob/Gyn-No-PCAAL, n = 6109). χ2 tests were used to compare categorical variables, and analysis of variance was used to compare continuous and interrupted time series analyses (ITSA) to investigate the guideline/OS implementation effect on penicillin/cephalosporin receipt.

In the Medical-PCAAL group, penicillin/cephalosporin receipt increased (58%-68%, P < .001), specifically for cefazolin (8%-11%, P = .02) and third- to fifth-generation cephalosporins (43%-48%, P = .04), and aztreonam use decreased (12 DOT/1000PD, P = .03). In the Medical-No-PCAAL group, penicillin/cephalosporin receipt increased (88%-90%, P = .004), specifically for penicillin (40%-44%, P < .001), without changes in aztreonam use. Significant changes were not observed in these outcomes on surgical or obstetrics/gynecology services. Per ITSA, guideline/OS implementation was associated with increased penicillin/cephalosporin receipt in the Medical-PCAAL group only.

Guideline and OS implementation was associated with improved antibiotic stewardship on inpatient services that also received allergy education.

Group B Streptococcus (GBS) positive patients with penicillin allergies receive intrapartum antibiotics for neonatal sepsis prophylaxis based on recommendations from the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). The objective of this study was to determine which antibiotics are used in GBS positive patients with documented penicillin allergies and evaluate for antibiotic stewardship improvements at a tertiary hospital in the Midwestern U.S.

Retrospective chart review identified GBS positive patients with and without penicillin allergies admitted to the labor and delivery floor. EMR-documented penicillin allergy severity, results of antibiotic susceptibility testing, and all antibiotics administered from admission to delivery were recorded. The study population was divided based on penicillin allergy status with antibiotic choice analyzed using Fisher's exact test.

406 GBS positive patients underwent labor between May 1, 2019, and April 30, 2020. Penicillin allergy was documented in 62 (15.3 percent) patients. Of these patients, cefazolin and vancomycin were prescribed most frequently for intrapartum neonatal sepsis prophylaxis. Antibiotic susceptibility testing was performed on the GBS isolate in 74.2 percent of the penicillin allergic patients. Between penicillin allergy and no penicillin allergy groups, the frequency of ampicillin, cefazolin, clindamycin, gentamicin, and vancomycin use showed statistical differences.

The study results suggest that antibiotic choice for neonatal sepsis prophylaxis in GBS positive patients with penicillin allergy at a tertiary Midwestern hospital follows current ACOG guidelines. Cefazolin was used most frequently in this population followed by vancomycin and clindamycin. Our results identify room for improvement regarding regular antibiotic susceptibility testing in GBS positive patients with penicillin allergy.

Benzoyl peroxide (BPO) 5% has been shown to reduce Cutibacterium acnes load on the skin. BPO 5% with miconazole nitrate (MN) 2% may be beneficial, whereas BPO 5% with clindamycin cream 1% to 1.2% does not seem to have additive effects when compared with BPO 5% alone. Chlorhexidine gluconate solutions reduce the total bacterial load on the skin, but do not seem to have a significant effect on C. acnes.

ChloraPrep seems to be the best surgical skin preparation to decrease overall positive skin cultures. Preincisional hydrogen peroxide 3% application has been shown to be a cost-effective practice to inhibit growth of C. acnes. Vancomycin powder before deltopectoral interval closure has antimicrobial effects against C. acnes and is a cost-effective practice. Finally, Bactisure surgical lavage is protective against the formation of biofilms.

IV cefazolin has been shown to be more effective for shoulder arthroplasty infection prophylaxis than antibiotic alternatives such as vancomycin. Thus, patients with a questionable history of penicillin allergy should undergo additional testing.

For shoulder surgery infection prophylaxis, we recommend the use of BPO 5% cream for 5 days preoperatively with chlorhexidine wipes the night before and the morning of surgery. IV cefazolin should be administered perioperatively, and patients with a questionable history of penicillin allergy should be tested. Surgeons should consider preincisional application of hydrogen peroxide 3% for 5 minutes, followed by standard ChloraPrep preparation. Normal saline should be used for preclosure lavage. Finally, application of vancomycin powder deep to the deltopectoral interval closure should be considered.

Cephalosporins are the preferred antibiotics for prophylaxis against surgical site infections. Most studies give a rate of combined IgE and non-IgE penicillin allergy yet it is recommended that cephalosporins be avoided in patients having the former but can be used in those with the latter. Some studies use penicillin allergy while others penicillin family allergy rates. The primary goal of this study was to determine the rates of IgE and non-IgE allergy as well as cross reactions to both penicillin and the penicillin family. Secondary goals were to determine the surgical services giving preoperative cefazolin and the types of self reported reactions that patients' had to penicillin prompting their allergy status.

All patients undergoing elective and emergency surgery at a University Health Sciences Centre were retrospectively studied. The hospital electronic medical record was used for data collection.

8.9% of our patients reported non-IgE reactions to penicillin with a cross reactivity rate of 0.9% with cefazolin. 4.0% of our patients reported IgE reactions to penicillin with a cross reactivity rate of 4.0% with cefazolin. 10.5% of our patients reported non-IgE reactions to the penicillin family with a cross reactivity rate of 0.8% with cefazolin. 4.3% of our patients reported IgE reactions to the penicillin family with a cross reactivity rate of 4.0% with cefazolin.

Our rate of combined IgE and non-IgE reactions for both penicillin and penicillin family allergy was within the range reported in the literature. Our rate of cross reactivity between cefazolin and combined IgE and non-IgE allergy both to penicillin and the penicillin family were lower than reported in the old literature but within the range of the newer literature. We found a lower rate of allergic reaction to a cephalosporin than reported in the literature. We documented a wide range of IgE and non-IgE reactions. We also demonstrated that cefazolin is frequently the preferred antibiotics for prophylaxis against surgical site infections by many surgical services and that de-labelling patients with penicillin allergy is unnecessary.

Penicillin (PCN) allergy labels affect antimicrobial selection for surgical prophylaxis. We aimed to increase the percentage of cefazolin usage in patients with PCN allergy labels undergoing orthopedic surgery from 50% to 80%.

Quality improvement initiative.

Children's Mercy Kansas City (CMKC), a freestanding children's hospital.

Children scheduled for an orthopedic surgery (excluding spinal surgery) at CMKC who had a PCN allergy label and received a perioperative antibiotic.

No standardized process existed to identify and clarify PCN-allergic-labeled patients preoperatively. We developed a process for patient identification combined with a pharmacist phone interview for PCN allergy clarification. In plan-do-study-act (PDSA) part 1, we implemented a computer-generated patient list. In PDSA part 2, we combined automated identification with a phone interview. In PDSA part 3, we enhanced the patient list, making it timely and concise. In PDSA part 4, we included a PCN allergy clarification electronic survey to caregivers via the electronic medical record.

Cefazolin use in PCN-allergic surgical patients increased from 50% to 74% following interventions. Patients who had their PCN allergy label clarified were 4 times more likely to receive cefazolin compared to those whose allergy labels were not clarified (OR, 4.21; 95% CI, 1.68-11.61; P = 0.003). Moreover, 90% of patients received cefazolin when their PCN allergy was clarified and cefazolin was recommended. When a PCN allergy label was not clarified, only 59% of patients received cefazolin.

Appropriate clarification and documentation of PCN allergy labels increases the use of cefazolin for surgical prophylaxis.

Surgical patients with a penicillin allergy label (PAL) are less likely to receive β-lactams for surgical site infection (SSI) prophylaxis and more likely to receive second-line antibiotics, which may increase the risk of SSI, drug toxicities, and associated costs. We assessed the impact of implementing a pharmacist-led quality improvement project to increase the use of cefazolin as a first-line agent in this population.

After implementation of a pilot project in December 2021, all patients with a PAL and orders for preoperative antibiotics were risk stratified into high- or low-risk categories by a pharmacist. For the low-risk group, cefazolin was recommended. For the high-risk group, cefazolin was avoided and a second-line agent was administered. Our analysis compared 422 preintervention patients (August 15 to November 15, 2021) to 492 postintervention patients (December 15 to March 15, 2022). During the postintervention period, β-lactam usage increased (from 12.6% to 37.8%, P < 0.001), while usage of vancomycin (45.5% vs 29.5%, P < 0.001) and other second-line antibiotics (87.4% vs 62.2%, P < 0.001) declined. There were no adverse reactions reported in the preintervention cohort, with 2 potential adverse reactions reported after the intervention (0% vs 0.4%, P = 0.190). Medication costs based on claims data were 50% to 80% lower for patients receiving cefazolin.

In our cohort, a pharmacy-led antibiotic selection algorithm for patients with a PAL receiving perioperative antimicrobial prophylaxis resulted in increased use of β-lactam antibiotics, decreased use of second-line antibiotics, and decreased costs without a significant change in the incidence of adverse reactions.
